let's just kick this off with a
hypothetical you're vegan you go to a
vegan protest you meet someone else who
introduces themselves as vegan you
decide to go back to this guy's house he
owns a cat you think okay that's normal
there are there are vegans who own cats
uh and you ask him so tell me um do you
buy cat food that's made out of dead
animals do you buy you know a tin can
that has a chopped up cow or chopped up
lamb in it you know what do you what do
you do with this cat you do you try to
feed the cat a vegan diet he says you
know no I also have pet rats oh really
okay well it's that's not so unusual
these days you meet vegans who keep rats
as pets but you know um what do you mean
and he says here let me show you he
takes you upstairs and he has two rooms
in his house one is full of cages with
his pet rats and the other is for his
cats to lie around in he says yeah I
raise the rats over here then every day
I take a few of them kill them and feed
them to my pet cats in the other room I
think you would be horrified I think
that anyone would be horrified
not just vegans I think a meat-eater
would find that psychologically
disturbing and I think the average vegan
would find that ethically wrong why why
is it that the same people who make
excuses for buying a dead cow cut up and
put into a little metal can to feed to a
cat which is completely unnatural in the
wild a cat would never kill and eat a
cow that those same people think it's
immoral for you as a vegan to kill a rat
to feed your cat or to kill rats under
any circumstances I have an earlier
video on this channel that I encourage
you to go back and take a
look at that's called vegans kill rats a
lot of people misunderstood the point of
that video I do not believe that killing
rats is okay mm-hmm I do not believe
that vivisection on rats is okay I'm
morally opposed to all the recession but
I am willing to talk about the ethical
contradictions difficulties and
paradoxes that being a vegan leads us
into and one of those paradoxes of
course is the whole paradigm of pet
ownership and domesticated animals
existing with the in veganism hey what's
up shout out to all my viewers in
Siberia a lot of research on Siberia
lately keep it on the right pile vegans
and their excuses for owning pets one of
the things I find tragicomic is that on
the one hand vegans in 2016 want to
engage in an over-the-top denunciation
of animal ownership as slavery
understandable some people get offended
by the comparison some people respond
positively some people are just confused
by it and some vegans I think a minority
do know enough about the history of
slavery to say something intelligent and
making this comparison others like I've
mentioned before the material from
direct action everywhere I think it they
seem to have no sincere interest in
history of slavery and they seem to make
a sort of dishonest use of this history
misrepresenting what it does and doesn't
have in common with the struggle for
animal rights to reform or abolish
animal agriculture etc etc my point is
here intelligent things can be said in
making this comparison stupid things can
be said also sometimes people are
offended by this for no good reason
sometimes they're offended for a good or
understandable reason these are the
types of awkward gray areas we all have
to deal with in in pole
today just to mention offhand so I've
been doing a lot of research lately on
Soviet Union on Russian communism you
can compare some aspects of Russian
communism to slavery but do you really
know enough to say something intelligent
about this of course the comparison
isn't perfect what they did with the
gulags with captive labor and so on it's
not exactly slavery and there are many
important ways in which it's different
from slavery but still not a simple case
of saying how dare you say that or what
have you
maybe you've got something intelligent
to say maybe you don't I'm about to
alienate about 50% of my audience but
that's ok
in fact that's the essence of what I've
got to do here on YouTube the fact that
your dog is happy from your perspective
as a human being does not vindicate or
exculpate the system of the
domestication of animals at all not even
1% it doesn't mean it's ok alright
and the parallelism here is the fact
that your slave may be happy in a slave
system of slave ownership that you
personally may own a slave who is happy
from your perspective as an owner does
not vindicate the system of slavery even
one bit ok and if you've studied any
particular example of slavery
historically whether in Sri Lanka or
Haiti or the United States ancient Egypt
or ancient Greece of course there are
examples of individual slaves who are
happy and that may of course be in part
because that individual slave knows that
his or her status is much better than
other slaves just next door or just in
the back yard or just on the plantation
it may be because their particular owner
treats them very graciously or
what-have-you
it is true
in every slave society you could find
individual slaves who were happy from
their own perspective and of course much
more commonly you found slave owners who
were convinced that their slaves were
happy from the the owners perspective
and to say that this does not vindicate
the system of slavery is the
understatement of the millennium alright
so the fact that you believe that your
dog is happy relative to your
perspective as a human being as the
human being who owns the couch that the
dog lies on to me is the stupidest most
fatuous most immoral thing I've ever
heard out of a vegans mouth and I've
been hearing it let me tell you your
response to my earlier videos I mean one
earlier video called vegans kill rats
please do not judge that by its title
it's a nuanced argument I'm not saying
it's okay to kill rats I'm not saying
it's okay to perform vivisection on rats
i I believe vivisection is completely
immoral I believe killing rats is
morally bad however I'm willing to
reflect on the complexities and
paradoxes we all get led into in real
life real life involves hard decisions
like killing rats even when you think
it's a bad thing
sometimes that's the sort of thing we
have to take responsibility for as
vegans life is full of nasty and brutal
contradictions and you know there are
vegans who join the military and kill
human beings this is real life you know
what it's about
and I don't pursue a kind of I don't
pursue consistency as an end in itself
consistency is important rationality is
important but it's also part of a mature
perspective on the world a mature
perspective on ethics to be able to
recognize and talk about with detachment
the circumstances in which we ourselves
become hypocrites the contradictions and
paradoxes that life in practice draws us
into
um why is it that there's such a
difference between the excuses these
vegans make for house pets such as dogs
and cats let's just stick with dogs for
this video um and the way they regard a
monkey kept in captivity alright if I
had a monkey in my apartment here you
would not give a
if I told you that the monkey was happy
doesn't matter my perspective does not
matter any of you would be asking the
hard questions you'd be saying well look
you know you say this monkey is happy
but you know it doesn't really have the
kind of habitat it would have in the
wild oh no no don't worry it's happy I
can even show you photographs on
Instagram I can film them and put them
on YouTube and show you how happy is
maybe I could even compare him to
monkeys being kept in a cage the
conditions at the zoo or the conditions
at the lab and say look my monkey is
really happy I treat him better than
than some other monkey's maybe my next
door neighbor has a monkey that's being
kept in much worse conditions I can
compare that the comparisons are
irrelevant how about that monkeys life
in the wild it involves both sex and
violence if you really get at your
reading and again I think I think vegans
just do not read this kind of material I
can sympathize to some extent but I
don't the people who try you know to
help out monkeys monkeys that are either
rescued from the circus or rescued from
labs people were in the gray area of
having these domesticated animals that
can't be returned to the wild the sex
and violence are some of the hardest
things to deal with
well you've rescued these chimpanzees
but it doesn't mean you can return them
to a Garden of Eden now you've got them
and they're trying to kill each other
and you got to separate them into
separate cages maybe you idiotic Lee you
thought you were freeing these animals
from cages you didn't want to put them
in a cage you've got some kind of
habitat you put the
in there they start trying to kill each
other now you put them back in cages
which they're comfortable with cuz they
love these kinds of people and you
realize oh my god these animals have
competitive behaviors violent behaviors
and sexual behaviors that are extremely
difficult for human beings to manage you
know in in a domesticated scenario
you're vegan you own a dog is your dog
spayed or neutered really think about
what that means if I owned a chimpanzee
as a pet would it be neutered would I
take it and perform a medical operation
on it to deprive it of its natural
instincts and behaviors so that it could
be a better companion to me what what
does that mean what are the implications
of that and it's so easy for people to
think that way to question that way when
it's a monkey or a lion they'd say oh
well this is immoral having a lion with
its balls chopped off a neutered lion
you know kept in a cage or kept in your
living room just to amuse you oh that's
that's immoral but a cat doing the same
thing with a house cat you see this as
morally acceptable why that is
speciesism for all of the BS talk about
speciesism and slavery that difference
that excuse you're making for a dog or a
house cat that you wouldn't make for a
lion or you wouldn't make for a
chimpanzee that is real speciesism and
its really a problem within veganism
even within vegan activists people who
consider themselves devoted vegan
activists right this indicates just how
deep this problem runs and how little
any of these people care about the wild
about wilderness and habitat
conservation as a moral baseline not a
dog who's had its balls chopped off
sitting on your couch pretending to be a
human for your amusement for your
campaign
and ship okay in the wild that dog would
kill and eat you wild dogs kill and eat
human beings you think having a piglet
as a pet is cute not only okay wild
boars into what you want to Google this
right now it will disturb the hell out
of you do a Google search for wild boar
eating deer in the wild pigs kill and
eat large mammals like deer they are
true omnivores they will kill a deer and
strip the flesh off it raw they will eat
the corpse directly human beings can't
do that you know human beings think of
themselves as omnivores
but we're physically incapable of
tearing apart and eating a you know a
corpse like like a deer or even a pig or
what-have-you off the ground pigs the
cute cuddly pigs if you know people from
the backwoods they'll tell you in the
old days when people would commit a
murder one of the easiest ways to cover
it up to destroy evidence to make it
harder for the police to investigate was
to take the human body and throw it into
a pig pen domesticated pigs in a few
hours would tear apart the corpse and
eat the flesh off of human corpse that's
your cute cuddly Pig what is it that
makes it so cute and cuddly depriving it
of the wilderness depriving it of
socialization with access to members of
its own species you think it's cute for
a human being to hold a baby bottle and
feed a piglet I don't think that's cute
where's that pig's mother right where's
that pigs pack its social organization a
pig or a wolf grows up in a pack that
socializes it to have the instincts and
behaviors that it needs to survive that
it needs to compete within its own
species that it needs to ultimately kill
members of other species including human
beings because we are naturally the
enemies of these other species in the
wild including pigs including wild boars
if you encounter a wild boar or
in a feral boar in the woods it's
terrifying even if it's alone let alone
in a pack this reminds me of different
stories I knew I knew a guy in in
Southeast Asia and he had lived in an
abandoned coconut farm so someone had
tried to make money with coconuts and
they'd given up and there were wild pigs
living in this advantage coconut
plantation and the jaws of an adult Pig
are so powerful that a whole fresh
coconut not a dry coconut fresh gonna
they can crack it open and then eat the
the flesh inside and the result was on
this particular patch of land these wild
pigs became absolutely enormous because
they could eat unlimited amounts of fat
basically from from these coconuts and
of course they hunted other mammals
including if they had a chance human
beings and also this this wasn't a
normal forest with forest cover you know
the trees all grow up tall and straight
with gaps between them because it's a
man-made coconut plantation so these
pigs could really chase you down through
the alleys between the trees it was
absolutely terrifying because this is
this is man and pig meeting is wild and
you want to take this animal and the
private of its socialization the private
of its natural habitat the private of
its instincts and ultimately deprive it
of its sexuality which one of the most
uncomfortable things to talk about right
you think your dog is happy the dog that
sleeps in your couch you think that dog
one that didn't want to know its own
mother - you think that dog didn't want
to be a parent itself the dog didn't
want to be a father or a mother
depending on its gender you think that
dog doesn't want to have sexual
relations than its own species you know
and to compete with other members of
species how are you gonna provide that
you can you can take away the wild from
an animal you can never give it back you
can an animal mentally and
physically so that it can't survive in
the wild but can you do the reverse
it's so strange to me that vegans
themselves are so deeply conditioned by
speciesism that they see these problems
when it's a monkey or a lion but they
don't see it or they refuse to see it
when it's a cat or a dog and the excuse
is I love my dog I love my cat the hell
you do
okay what what does it mean to love a
lion
it means you respected enough to give it
its autonomy and its independence and to
live in the wild at least most of the
time I think human beings can have
interesting and meaningful interactions
with wild animals and I could tell
stories about that too I mean I used to
live on the edge of the last jungle
jungle that's now been completely cut
down in Thailand and Laos people who
really live around wild animals you can
sometimes have friendly encounters even
with wild bears and you know it's
surreal but it happens you can talk to
anyone about this but that's nothing
like the system of domestication and as
I say the system itself remains bad just
like the system of slavery even if
individual slaves are happy even if
individual animals are happy and if you
know about the real history of slavery
it wasn't all people living at a
distance from their slaves one of the
ways in which slavery is profoundly
corrupting the human spirit is that
people would have their own children
raised by slaves so they live in a house
in a very intimate way with their slaves
if you go to Southeast Asia Thailand
Cambodia Laos you may notice you may not
if you're if you're if you're not
sensitive if you're not observant there
are still these really strange cultural
prohibitions about the level you sit at
and culturally before Western influence
none of those people sat on chairs
traditionally be sitting on the floor or
you'd sit with a you know a very small
pillow raising you up low of the above
the floor by a few millimeters this this
kind of thing is traditional and
interesting that's also contrast to
Chinese culture when the Chinese would
visit Southeast Asia they thought
people were barbarians because they
didn't city in high chairs maybe Europe
and China had a chair based culture and
so these days you did not it was a floor
a floor sitting culture but they still
still today in many context they are
very particular about who is sitting
higher than whom now one of the reasons
for that Cambodia traditionally that was
often the only difference between slaves
and masters when they set to eat at the
same table in the same household
you know the slaves would sit a little
further down the table and they would
sit directly on the floor as opposed to
sitting on a rat hand mat or something
raised you up a bit now Cambodia was
very influential throughout the region
you know many aspects of Thai culture
allow culture etc are directly imitative
of Cambodian culture including the the
actual words for pillow and mats a lot
that's I mean just mentioned
interestingly the the sense in which
those cultures were imitating aspects of
Cambodian refinement for many centuries
still show up even even linguistically
but these cultural indicators of who is
a slave and who is a free man
they can last for a long long time
whether it's in Europe and Asia or what
have you but part of what makes slavery
so disturbing when you study it in
detail on any one culture is that it
does involve the type of relations that
vegans still have today with their pets
it does involve relations of love
between unequal parties it does involve
entertainment it involves the slaves
singing and dancing for the master you
know it involves you know the same way
you say your dog sleeps on your couch it
involves the slaves sleeping on the
Masters couch and a lot of really murky
gray areas which again make it very
happy for people who benefit from the
system slavery to really perceive the
ways in which this is profoundly
corrupting and evil to society as a
whole the difference for us as vegans or
just as people who own pets really is
the juxtapositioning animals that we
still think of as wild versus animals
where we have forgotten or lost the
reference point for wilderness as I say
I think pigs are an example along with
cats and dogs were people including
vegan
have given into a speciesist mentality
and thus justify a form of slavery
without even thinking it through because
they do not when they think of a pig
whether as a cute piglet or as a farm
animal they do not think of a wild boar
they do not think of the behaviors of
this animal well same for the dog same
for the cats lions are different by and
large another weird category are whales
and dolphins I heard very disturbing
radio documentary that dealt with the
bizarre and immoral relations be human
beings and dolphins when dolphins were
kept in quite small tanks in captivity
basically dolphins being kept in a
swimming pool for scientific research
now this research did not involve
torturing the dolphins it isn't this
particular research was not of that
variety they wanted to test dolphin
intelligence and they wanted the
Dolphins to be highly motivated and
cooperative for these tests well guess
what dolphins have a sex drive
what are these human beings gonna do
when they have a dolphin and a tank and
they're trying to keep it motivated and
cooperative and the dolphin is miserable
and among the instincts it can't
exercise is its desire for sexuality if
you have a pet chimpanzee you're gonna
know about that their sex drive is gonna
be a shocking and uncomfortable part of
your life if you have dolphins in
captivity anyone would know that if you
have a lion most people like whether
they're soo or again some of these
things are well motivated you know these
parks that are trying to rescue lions
that used to be in the circus and give
them a kind of comfortable retirement
one of the most bizarre things they
complain about is of the lion
you know spraying human beings with
their their hormones they can they can
spray a liquid you know hormone and
people to mark them as their territory
who would have these bizarre episodes
people kid into well
what what compromise were you expecting
the animal to make even when you put an
animal through an immoral humiliating
demeaning surgery to remove its
reproductive organs to remove those
instincts still that animal will have an
stifled echo of its natural sexual
desires and behavior that you're
probably gonna have to deal with that
it's probably could be an uncomfortable
and embarrassing part of your life well
this dog is decorating your couch or
whatever right and yet people seem to
recognize that this is creepy this is
immoral this is wrong when it's a monkey
on the couch when it's a dolphin in that
scientists tank a dolphin that needs to
be relieved shall we say I'm keeping
this a bit vague the same problem can
happen with birds that are being kept
captive including birds that are
endangered and in captive breeding
programs the the reasons for these
things are not always pure evil I mean
you know I've heard about people trying
to keep goats as pets I've met one
person who kept goats as pets
you know goats in anything resembling
the wild you know the violent
territorial instincts the competitions
between the males
you know rutting Bucks the the the males
butting heads and so on woody what are
you going to do to control those
instincts to turn this defiant
independent animal into your toy into
your slave into your plaything it's sick
domestication of animals as your
companions is sick if you claim your pet
dog is happy that is every bit as absurd
to me as if you claimed your pet goat
was happy your pet lion was happy your
pet ape was happy
the hell it is